Okay, so what we're gonna try to
do now is not a quick win with
our little just simple old index.htmls,
but rather not a quick win,
but a Vitr win,
[LAUGH] a little French pun for you there.
[LAUGH] That's not how French works.
But anyway, of making this starter app
that the lovely create Vite package
booted up for us to help us understand
the structure of a Vite project.
We're gonna take this and
morph it into a little selfie cam
that uses some browsery goodness
in order to take a photo,
[LAUGH] which is just the very
scratching the surface
of what this stuff can do in the browser,
but
let's talk about some more
of these browser APIs.
Because for some reason, memes always
involve different spellings, so
developers slides always have to
involve [LAUGH] different spellings.
Okay, so there is on our
handy-dandy navigator object,
and again in browser land, not in Node,
in the browser that we are running
this client side app in.
There is a navigator, and
that has a mediaDevices, and
that has a method called getUserMedia.
And can you read all about the details and
all of the other stuff that
you can do with this on MDN?
Why, you betcha, you sure can.
So we're just gonna talk about this
getUserMedia, which we call this and
we pass in a kind of little options
object where we can say at what
kinds of media we are trying to
get from the user's computer.
And so we could be trying to get
their microphone, their audio media,
we could be trying to get their camera,
their video media.
And this is where there's
websites that they're like,
do you wanna give permission to
your camera off to this thing.
There's other APIs for things like
location and whatever other stuff we might
need, so this is just, again,
scratching the surface.
So this is an async operation, because it
might take a minute for, first of all,
the user to approve that it wants to allow
this random website access to its system.
But also,
it takes a minute to do all the things,
to talk to the camera and set it all up.
So that's why there's an async
function and we need to await it.
And then what we can do,
what we get back here is a stream.
Again, we can go to our best friend
forever and be like, getUserMedia.
How does that work?
And look at all the details of
what is it blah, blah, blah,
produces a media stream with all
this stuff and it returns a promise.
So it's asynchronous, so
we can go and check if we want to,
what is the API of this thing?
Again, it's just a convention
that the browser exposes.
But for now, you can just trust
me that it returns a stream,
and that then what we can do
is if we have a video element,
an HTML video element,
we can assign that stream
to be the source object
of this video element.
And then we can do stuff
like play the video, or
pause the video, or
whatever else someone might want to do.
And so in this case, because we asked for
audio, this will be a video with audio.
We might also, for
a selfie cam, for example,
just to need the video part of the stream.
And is there a whole bunch more one could
say about these streams and this data and
how it's being all passed around?
Of course, there is.
But for now, we just wanna do some fun
stuff of messing with the browser.
And so this is one way that we
can grab the video media or
audio media from our users.
And just a quick note is that this
is like the modern way to do this,
but some older browsers
don't support this.
So you sometimes see try catch or
whatever around it, but you know what,
we are living in the modern world here
in our quick little Vite project that's
running in our modern browser, so
we're not gonna worry about it.
Okay, so
we're gonna pull all this in a second,
but the other thing that
becomes useful here is when
we mix this video situation
with another super,
super useful and super powerful and
super massive API of canvases,
the canvas [LAUGH] API.
So canvas,
it's another element in our angled
tags that we might have in our HTML.
And the canvas API is one
of these entire sections of
[LAUGH] the browser APIs that
allows us to do, whoa, okay,
yes, this is an element,
and blah, blah, blah.
And I was actually trying to get the API,
but I pressed Enter, too.
So okay, the canvas API, which again,
is part of our massive reference of all
these web API's, tells us all about
different stuff that we can do with it.
Basically, it all hinges upon
we have a canvas element.
And then we get what's called a rendering
context that's provided by that element.
And the way this works is that
we call a method on the HTML
canvas element object called
getContext and we pass in.
There's also a 3D option, perhaps, there's
all kinds of stuff you can do with this,
but we want a 2D context in this case.
We're gonna get that context and
then we can use the context object,
which is just this whole long
thing I can go read about.
This exposes a whole
bunch of properties in
a highly imperative paradigm
that allow us to mess
with this canvas object
in our user's browser.
So that can be used, there's entire
art and creative coding libraries.
If you've heard of P5.js, for example,
or there's whole kinds of things
that are built on top of this API.
Right now,
we're just gonna do a couple tricks.
And so, okay, so
one of the tricks that we can do,
once we have this context is
we can change the style of,
it's almost pick the paint color
in your MSPaint or whatever,
[LAUGH] and set the fill style property
to, let's say, the color yellow.
And then we can fill a rectangle
by calling .fillRect.
And that is we're gonna pass in a bunch
of numbers to it that the canvas
is gonna know how to turn into an actual
yellow rectangle on your screen.